---
title: "App Defaults 2023"
date: 2024-01-05T08:00:00+01:00
draft: false
ShowToc: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: false
ShowPostNavLinks: true
tags: [apps]
---

A bit late to [the party](https://defaults.rknight.me/) but here I go:

- **Email:** iCloud + Default Mail app
- **Browser:** Arc + Safari
- **Task management:** Things + Reminders
- **Bookmarks:** mymind
- **Photo shooting:** Default camera app + Halide + Spectre
- **Photo editing:** Lightroom
- **Notes:** Apple Notes + Bear
- **Writing:** iA Writer
- **Finance:** My bank’s app
- **Read later:** GoodLinks
- **Password manager:** 1Password
- **Music:** Apple Music
- **Messaging:** WhatsApp
- **Sport:** Suunto + Freeletics

## Notes

### Email
Not much to say here. I neither write nor receive enough emails to justify anything more powerful than the default **Mail** app.

### Browser
Once you get used to it, moving away from **Arc** (on macOS) becomes really difficult. It’s also really interesting to follow closely such an active team, that comes up with new releases every few weeks (or maybe even more often). **Safari** is still my default on iPhone and iPad and sometimes I open it up on my MacBook as well. 

### Task manager
**Things** is probably my favourite app in the world and I use **Reminders** only for some shared lists.  I tried to make the switch and move everything there but it didn’t work. There’s just an abyss that separates the two. For work related tasks and documentation, everything is in **Notion** since that’s what we use. 

### Bookmarks
Even if it’s not for everyone, I love almost everything about **mymind**. Sure, their app could be improved a bit but the simplicity of just throwing everything in there and being sure you’ll find it again is priceless[^1]. Whenever I let my subscription expire, I regret it shortly after. Also, amazing approach at privacy and principles in general. 

### Photo shooting
For some reason I renewed **Halide** but the reality is that the default **Camera** app covers 99% of my needs. I still enjoy using **Spectre** for long captures, especially when crowds are involved.  

### Photo editing
I’ve been using **Lightroom** for so many years that I don’t even want to think about moving somewhere else, honestly. That being said, next year I want to try a cheaper solution (still need to figure out what that might look like).

### Notes
Apple **Notes** serves me perfectly well for my personal notes and, since it’s made by Apple, it integrates greatly with all my devices and offers good enough sharing features. Because I don’t want to mix research, personal, and work stuff, I use **Bear** for my research notes and **Notion** (with my company account) for work related ones. 

### Writing
If you want to write for real, focus deeply, and lose yourself in your world there is simply nothing better than **iA Writer**.

### Read later
My requirements in this regards are just those of having a nice place where to store files for later. **GoodLinks** is a beautiful and extremely polished native app for iOS that costs only a few bucks once. Do you *really* need more than that?

### Password manager
As [Keenan](https://gkeenan.co/avgb/app-defaults) said "**1Password**, like a sane person".

### Music
I grew sick of how Spotify kept changing their UI and suggesting me stuff I wasn’t interested in so I tried **Apple Music**. Here I rediscovered the *old way* of listening to music: much more focused on albums, which is closer to how I organise music in my mind. 

### Messaging
I live in Europe so there really isn’t any alternative to **WhatsApp** here...

### Sport
I’m so happy with my **Suunto** 9 Peak Pro that I’ll probably write something just about that. The app that comes with it is also much better than Garmin’s. That, paired with **Freeletics** (which is the only app that keeps me on track with my exercises), is everything I need. 

[^1]: As it comes out, it actually has a well definied and pretty high price